In this chapter we're going to talk about,
the next
step in object oriented programming, and
that's working with inheritance.
To explain the concept of inheritance I'm
gonna have to, write a few notes.
So, I'm going to start a Notepad file.
Inheritance is used to, implement what's
called an, is-a relationship between
objects.
For example, car is- a vehicle.
Manager is-a employee.
Now, the grammar's not perfect there, but
you get the idea.
With inheritance, we can create what's
called a, base
class, such as, an employee class or a
vehicle class.
And we can define that class to have a
certain set
of, attributes and behaviors, here I'm
talking more in terms of
abstract data types, then we can create,
what's called a derived class,
from that base class, that inherits those
attributes and behaviors.
That are defined for the base class and
then, add extra, functionality to, the
drive class.
So, for example, we might, define a
vehicle as something that has, wheels.
And then we can say, a car is a more
specific vehicle, that has four wheels.
An employee is a person who works for a
company, and has certain attributes, such
as, name and ID, department they work in,
and a salary.
Or maybe they're hourly.
And then we can specialize, a type of
employee as a manager.
Derive, the concept of manager, from
employee, and include extra attributes and
behaviors.
Such as, a manager may not be able to earn
overtime.
A manager, supervises other employees and
yet, even though the manager
has these extra powers, they are still
considered, to be a type of employee.
A manager is-an employee, last example,
and
this is the one we're going to demonstrate
in code, rectangle is-a shape, shapes have
attributes,
but their fairly, ambiguous, in the
example I'm
going to provide in a moment, a shape is
defined as having xy coordinate, so
we're thinking of a shape, somewhere on
the
plane as having at least a single
xycoordinate.
Then, the rectangle can be, derived from
that shape, and
provide other, attributes such as having a
width, and a height.
Let's go from these, concepts to a python
example.
So, we're gonna create a program called
rectangle.py.
The first thing we're gonna do, is to find
our shape class.
So, we're going to define a shape, to have
two fields, an x coordinate, and y a
coordinate.
We'll define a two string method,
that will just print out the x and y
position, of a shape.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Then we'll define a method called Move,
which
we can use [SOUND] to move shapes around.
So, this first line moves it on the x
axis,
and this next line, moves the shape on
it's y axis.
There's more we can do to define a shape,
but that's good enough for now.
We wanna create the rectangle class as
inheriting from shape.
So, the way we do that is, we put, the
base class in as a argument.
Think of it like a function call.
And the base class, is an argument to the
derived class
what we're saying is, we're saying class,
rectangle inherits from, class shape.
The first thing that we're going to do, is
write the constructor.
Now, when we are defining the, constructor
for the derived class.
One of the things we have to do, is called
base
class constructor, that's the only
properly way, to create a derived object.
So, here's our call, first to the base
class constructor.
It looks kind of odd, but, you'll see
what's
happening here is, we don't have to
rewrite our code.
We inherit this, method from the shape
class.
So, we can simply call it, with the proper
parameters.
And this code will be executed.
Then, the rest of our constructor, we'll
define.
I have, length, in the parameter list, but
that's supposed to height.
So, let me fix that.
There we go.
Now, we also need to redefine, the two
sting method.
So, the first thing that we're going to
do, is we're gonna create a return
string that returns, the state of this
object, and to do that we're gonna call
the two string method, for the base class
first, and then we're going to add
to it, so it's gonna be a plus equal to
concatenate to the current value.
And we'll drop down to the next line,
right here,
to show the rest of it, and then when
we're
finished, [SOUND] we simply return, our
return string, and we're done.
Now, that's all we have to do to define.
Rectangle.
We can use the move method directly from,
the base class, shape.
We don't have to specify it at all, in our
derive class if,
we're going to use it as is, and it should
work just fine.
So, lets try that by creating a rectangle.
X coordinate of 5, y coordinate of 10.
Width of 8, height of 9.
Display it using two string, then let's
move it, to
new x and y coordinates, and then print it
again.
So, let's save it.
Bring it back up.
[SOUND] Type the code.
We need a space there before we with, but
other than that, you see how it works.
Let me go add that in real quick while we
review.
There.
And, right here add some spaces.
Okay.
So, to review very briefly, we can derive
a class from a base class using
inheritance.
When we do that, we are able to call,
methods from the
base class in our derive class, as well as
add our own code.
To a method, to accommodate the derived
class.
If we don't need to make any changes to a
method, though, like
with move, we can use it as-is, as we did
in this example, where
we created a rectangle, then moved it,
even though, if you look at the
code, for rectangle, we did not include
any code for move, in that definition.
So, that wraps up this first lesson on
inheritance and we'll
look at some, further concepts in the
second lesson of this chapter.